<pre>
BUIP021: Proposal for implementation of node performance testing and safe block size estimation and broadcast
Proposer: Peter Waterland
Submitted: 2016-07-18
Status: draft
</pre>
'''Background:'''<br />
A major concern raised over on-chain-scaling is the presumption that a rising blocksize will harm decentralisation of the network and lead to a falling number of non-validating nodes. No assessment of true individual node performance or means to gauge this currently exists for the bitcoin network. Armed with this knowledge it would be possible to objectively evaluate the potential performance increases the network could endure without losing nodes for purely technical reasons (rising cost excluded). If nodes on the network begin to broadcast a 'safe' block size threshold to which they can perform then miners will be confident in safely raising the block size in the future.<br />
<br />
'''Proposal:'''<br />
<br />
1)<br />
This proposal is to incorporate a suite of simple benchmarking tests to the unlimited node software package to allow a specification of the node in terms of: CPU performance, memory capacity, storage space and perhaps most importantly network bandwidth capacity to be recorded.<br />
<br />
This information can be passed across the network upon request to allow analysis of the specifications and capabilities of the nodes making up the network as a whole.<br />
<br />
2)<br />
Each node after running the node performance suite will be assigned a 'safe to X mb block size' value which can be broadcast to the network and is independent of other node settings. The default setting for this should be active, with a user configurable setting to disable this.<br />
<br />
'''Data gathering required prior to implementation:'''<br />
The team will run an experimental testnet of BU nodes at different gradations of maximum blocksize from 1 to 50mb (and varying connected numbers of nodes) to generate simulated mainnet bandwidth traffic between nodes (Xthin enabled) which will be measured.<br />
<br />
This data will then be used along with estimations for ECDSA validations and calculated disk space for a year of blockchain growth at each maximum blocksize between 1 and 50mb to create a table of recommended node specifications for each block size greater than 1mb at 0.5mb intervals.<br />
<br />
'''Detail of performance testing:'''<br />
<br />
Code for benchmark testing may either be standalone to be run periodically and and generate a report for the node to use or could be merged directly into the codebase.<br />
<br />
Fine details of testing routines to be left to developers.<br />
<br />
'''CPU performance''':<br />
A testing routine should be performed which assesses the maximum number of ECDSA validations the node is able to perform per second. Fairly trivial.<br />
<br />
'''Memory capacity''':<br />
This is even more straightforward. The total available memory capacity of the node (in gigabytes) to be recorded (to give a theoretical maximum mempool size).<br />
<br />
'''Network assessment''':<br />
A testing routine to assess maximum available bandwidth (up and downstream) to the bitcoin network.<br />
<br />
'''Storage''':<br />
Maximum available disk space to the node recorded. This can then be used to generate theoretical blockchain growth capacity in years based upon various blocksizes.<br />
<br />
'''Safe for blocksize setting''':<br />
Once the above benchmarking tests have been performed for the node a value will be generated to signal to the network that the node has required capacity (CPU power, memory storage, disk space and network bandwidth) to tolerate data associated with a maximum block size up to a given value.<br />
<br />
The node will compare the results of the benchmark tests with the table generated/supplied by the development team to select the appropriate value. A suitable safety margin will be integrated.<br />
<br />
As this is bitcoin unlimited this will be activated by default but will be user configurable to deactivate.<br />
<br />
'''Conclusion:'''<br />
Decentralisation is vital to the bitcoin network. It seems obvious that some form of network assessment to identify node specifications prior to network performance upgrades should be integrated into node software. Bitcoin Unlimited has the opportunity to be the first to integrate this.<br />
<br />
'''Voting:'''<br />
Voting will be either a YES or NO to both integrate performance testing into BU and activate a (user configurable) 'safe for x mb blocksize' setting which is visible to the network.<br />
<br />
Final comments please, prior to voting..<br />
<br />
