<pre>
BUIP027: Satoshi's Vision - Development & Scaling Conference
Proposer: Andrew Clifford
Submitted: 2016-09-31
Status: passed
</pre>
'''Summary'''<br />
<br />
This is an Operational BUIP requesting BU membership approval for the expenditure to hold a small conference for the purpose of bringing together noted* Bitcoin developers to overview, discuss, critique and prioritize many of the leading software enhancements which enable a far higher capacity for transactional throughput ''on-chain.''<br />
* active developers of any full-node implementation who also support the on-chain scaling ethos.<br />
<br />
'''Objectives'''<br />
<br />
This conference has several strands:

<ol style="list-style-type: decimal;">
<li><blockquote><p>Reaffirmation of Satoshi Nakamoto's original vision described in his 2008 whitepaper and later forum correspondence.</p></blockquote></li>
<li><blockquote><p>Make the case for multiple implementations, i.e. decentralized development, resolving the last major centralizing force within the Bitcoin ecosystem.</p></blockquote></li>
<li><blockquote><p>Presentations: Selected items drawn from the Bitcoin Unlimited proposed development [https://bitco.in/forum/threads/bitcoin-unlimited-proposed-development-roadmap.1401/ ''roadmap''].</p></blockquote></li>
<li><blockquote><p>Panel and breakout discussions to debate specific on-chain scaling changes</p></blockquote></li>
<li><blockquote><p>Networking: CTOs from Bitcoin ecosystem businesses will be invited to participate.</p></blockquote></li>
<li><blockquote><p>Prepare the groundwork for paid developers to enhance BU full-node software on a per-project basis which are approved by technical BUIPs.</p></blockquote></li>
<li><blockquote><p>Publicity for BU itself as a growing centre of development excellence for Bitcoin full-node software.</p></blockquote></li></ol>

'''Expenditure'''<br />
<br />
Budget: $20,000 with a further $5,000 reserve if necessary.<br />
BU to be the major sponsor for the event but will attempt to mitigate costs by attracting additional sponsorship.<br />
Funds to cover the conference room, catering and direct conference expenses for approximately 10 attendees. Externally invited attendees are additional but not reimbursed for expenses. (estimate ~10)<br />
<br />
''Edit:'' Funds to be available for live-streaming of the presentations and panel discussions. Recordings of these will be made available. Also, the keynote presentations will be translated into major languages and then available later on.<br />
<br />
'''Location and Date:'''<br />
<br />
San Francisco area (TBD).<br />
September 25th (provisional date) but the option exists to defer if necessary.

