<pre>
BUIP029: Vote Trevin Hofmann for Secretary
Proposer: Trevin Hofmann
Submitted: 2016-09-06
Status: ??
</pre>

-----BEGIN PGP SIGNED MESSAGE-----<br />
Hash: SHA256<br />
<br />
'''About Me'''<br />
<br />
Hello! I am in my fourth and final year at the Milwaukee School of Engineering (MSOE) as a software engineering student. Software has always been my primary passion. In particular, I have been most interested in open source software, applied cryptography, and Bitcoin. My résumé is available at [http://trevinhofmann.com/resume.pdf ''http://trevinhofmann.com/resume.pdf''].<br />
<br />
'''Bitcoin &amp; Me'''<br />
<br />
I first discovered Bitcoin in early 2013 in a news article about capital controls in Cyprus. After the summer of 2013, I moved to Milwaukee to begin my software engineering degree at MSOE. During the first quarter, I was extremely fortunate to begin working remotely for Bitalo, a European Bitcoin company. With this job, I learned more about the inner workings of Bitcoin while developing a mining pool, a mobile multisignature wallet, and an escrow-based marketplace. Bitcoin is the most fascinating application of cryptography that I have found so far, and I have been passionately involved with it ever since discovering it.<br />
<br />
'''Bitcoin Unlimited &amp; Me'''<br />
<br />
Bitcoin thrives on diversity and decentralization. Today, a single Bitcoin node implementation dominates the ecosystem. Given my belief that Bitcoin would benefit from a more diverse set of node implementations, I sought to contribute to an alternative to Bitcoin Core. I chose Bitcoin Unlimited (BU) due to its approach to the block size limit and other consensus rules. Rather than forcing consensus rules to its users in a top-down approach, BU puts the users in control of their own nodes' configuration. I was skeptically optimistic of BU's viability when first joining the project, but I have since become much more confident in its model of emergent consensus.<br />
<br />
As a member of BU, I have contributed to the website's development, maintenance, and deployment. I have also created our Slack organization and maintained it with the help of Andrew Quentson ([https://bitco.in/forum/members/11/ ''@Aquent'']) and others (message me for an invitation!).<br />
<br />
'''Bitcoin Unlimited's Secretary'''<br />
<br />
I am offering my candidacy for the role of Bitcoin Unlimited's Secretary, which has been vacant since Andrew Quentson's resignation. Andrew has been very helpful as Secretary, and I wish to continue this role with even greater involvement. Per the BU Articles of Federation, I would assist with recording and publishing BUIPs and their vote results, fostering conversation in public forums, and potentially moderating discussion by moving content when applicable.<br />
<br />
'''Conclusion'''<br />
<br />
Thank you very much for taking the time to consider my candidacy for Bitcoin Unlimited's Secretary role. If you have questions or comments, please reply to this post or message me directly.<br />
<br />
-----BEGIN PGP SIGNATURE-----<br />
Version: GnuPG v2<br />
<br />
iQEcBAEBCAAGBQJXzyw+AAoJEHN9+j2LWHieOMwH/REPjl5zSEbK9VZvHQv3IGvh<br />
mJlxMTpApQOkOOy+Y37+trnUm9JFlwlzPj4yJLeaAQel7hbtZN2CeNmPHkgH40pR<br />
O8GSXbNiUJence/u8Fp6zuGbvGvK9awCdL60BZQon3wMKd2+26DkWcEgoMZI1Xk7<br />
5/Ys6HBX8gf5kckV7WqE5Y+/+t5bQ9qTyCPbGmh6VJvNR/sojXfUu3P6oAMdqGAQ<br />
BD8q8HQ5I1fPItZ94ZAXPDsN6qPfZ/9429ZfB4oiZCwMJyS4V52to6b+Cpi9zfVz<br />
x7H/mkFCl61jAiNX/1ianQGqEa65QpLBf1PBVTAf6y3Menk2RB4ZfqBg8Pz9Pyo=<br />
=wkyr<br />
-----END PGP SIGNATURE-----

