<pre>
BUIP032: Vote Peter R for Secretary
Proposer: Peter Rizun (Peter R)
Sumbitted: 2016-10-05
Status: passed
</pre>

Dear Members,<br />
<br />
Please accept this post as my entry into the election for Secretary of Bitcoin Unlimited.<br />
<br />
My full name is Peter Ryan Rizun and I live in Vancouver, BC, Canada. I spend about half of my time running a technology company I co-own called [http://www.osensa.com/ ''Osensa Innovations Corp''] and the other half of my time working as a volunteer to help grow Bitcoin. Bitcoin is my passion, and I want to help shape its entrance upon the global economic stage, doing to the &quot;exchange of money&quot; what the Internet did to the exchange of information.<br />
<br />
As Bitcoin Unlimited Secretary, I would continue to work towards the vision defined by Satoshi Nakamoto in his seminal [https://bitcoin.com/bitcoin.pdf ''white paper'']. Bitcoin was meant to be a peer-to-peer electronic cash system, accessible to the world's seven billion people, and I wholeheartedly commit to doing whatever is in my power to make this vision a reality.<br />
<br />
Professionally, I am half physicist and half engineer.<br />
<br />
I am a co-founder and a co-managing editor for [http://ledgerjournal.org/ojs/index.php/ledger ''Ledger''], the very first peer-reviewed academic journal for cryptocurrency research, supported by a distinguished editorial board with representation from Oxford, Duke, Stanford and more.<br />
<br />
My main research interest is developing analytical theory that explains properties and emergent phenomenon of the Bitcoin Network. I've written two papers related to Bitcoin that received significant interest, [http://www.bitcoinunlimited.info/downloads/feemarket.pdf ''“A Transaction Fee Market Exists Without A Block Size Limit”''] and [http://www.bitcoinunlimited.info/downloads/subchains.pdf ''“Reduce Orphaning Risk and Improve Zero Confirmation Security With Subchains”''], and gave [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ad0Pjj_ms2k ''a talk''] on block space as an economic commodity at the Scaling Bitcoin conference in Montreal. I also wrote a 5-part article series called ''&quot;Towards Massive On-Chain Scaling: Block Propagation Results With Xthin,&quot;'' that received over 20,000 views, to present our results after the BU core team measured block propagation times for over 8,000 blocks.<br />
<br />
I'm also a &quot;hardware junky,&quot; and in the fall of 2014 I built several prototypes of [https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=610453.0 ''&quot;Sigsafe: a NFC key tag for signing Bitcoin transactions.&quot;''] One of these devices made the [https://vimeo.com/105458967 ''world's first Bitcoin transaction signed off-line over an air gap''] and then communicated to the network in real time.<br />
<br />
I was the recipient of the $105,000 Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) CGS Doctoral Award and was recognized as a “Leader of Tomorrow” by the Alberta Science and Technology Foundation (ASTech). I hold a B.A.Sc. degree in Engineering Physics from the University of British Columbia and a Ph.D. in Medical Physics from the University of Calgary.<br />
<br />
Outside of Bitcoin, I'm a hard-core foodie, drink far too much wine for my own good, and love hiking and swimming. I hope that you consider voting for me in the upcoming election for Bitcoin Unlimited Secretary.<br />
<br />
Sincerely,<br />
Peter R. Rizun
