<pre>
BUIP045: Unified addresses format for BUIP037
Proposer: Amaury SÉCHET
Submitted: 2017-01-12
Status: draft
</pre>

This is mostly an adaptation of [https://rusty.ozlabs.org/?p=578 ''Rusty Russel's work''] for BUIP037.<br />
<br />
The address is composed of the following elements:<br />
1. Prefix for type, followed by colon. Currently &quot;btc:&quot; or &quot;testnet:&quot;.<br />
2. The version field, encoded using [http://philzimmermann.com/docs/human-oriented-base-32-encoding.txt ''z-base32'']<br />
3. The hash field, encoded using [http://philzimmermann.com/docs/human-oriented-base-32-encoding.txt ''z-base32'']<br />
4. At least 35 bits for crc64-ecma, up to a multiple of 5 to reach a letter boundary. This covers the prefix (as ascii), the version and the hash.<br />
5. The final letter is the [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Damm_algorithm ''Damm algorithm''] check digit of the entire previous string, using the 32 way quasigroup formed by GF(2^5) and x^5 + x^2 + 1 as base polynomial and n = 2*x + y as generator.<br />
<br />
Step 4 and 5 add 8 characters to the address, 7 for CRC and 1 for Damm, and ensure this<br />
<br />
This has various advantages:<br />
- A unified address format for all current addresses and futures features to come.<br />
- Nicer looking than base58 - subjective but base58 addresses tends to be intimidating for newcomers.<br />
- Protected against errors via a CRC64.<br />
- Protected against any single character change via Damm.<br />
- As long as the number of version is kept under 64, the first letter indicate the type of address as it is the 5 most significant digit of the version.<br />
- Addresses are compact enough, 42 digit for 20B hash, 61 for 32B.<br />
<br />
Example (I did not run CRC or Damm on them, just filled with random digits):<br />
btc:yybul3unspd4bn2aji33natie5sd2iqsikrfgm8ejk (42 digits for a P2KH, 20B hash).<br />
btc:b1ee6ceodhmo2d0rmr7utt31u0163kdoakirgoigsd112d5batlt2a (61 digits for a P2SH, 32B hash).

