<pre>
BUIP056: Increase the Block Size Limit at a Support Threshold
Proposer: Tomas van der Wansem
Sponsor: Zangelbert Bingledack
Submitted on: 2017-05-12
Status: draft
</pre>


==Abstract==

This proposal allows nodes to be configured to change their block size limit when a support threshold is reached.


==Motivation==

As outlined in the motivation for [[055.mediawiki|BUIP055]], the EB/AD configuration currently lacks a mechanism for miners to coordinate changes to the ''max_block_size''.

BUIP055 solves this by allowing miners to preannounce a change to their ''max_block_size'' at a certain height. A drawback of that approach is that miners cannot predict whether there is enough support among miners for the change at the specified height.

This BUIP offers a way to change the ''max_block_size'' setting based on support for the new value among miners. By choosing a support threshold percentage, they can trigger a change of the block size limit guarded by what is for them the most relevant parameter for allowing the change.


==Specification==

===''max_block_size'' calculation===

To determine the ''max_block_size'' used to verify a target block, a node will use the variables:

:: ''current_limit'' is the current size limit.

:: ''new_limit'' is the new size limit that will be activated when the threshold is reached.

:: ''threshold'' is the minimum percentage of supporting blocks in a difficulty period to trigger activation.


''new_limit'' must be larger then ''current_limit'' and ''threshold'' must be a multiple of 5 between 50 and 100 inclusive.

For our calculation, we define a block set as a set of blocks in a single difficulty period at least 5 difficulty periods in the past; that is, a set of blocks before the target block with heights between '''y * 2016''' and '''(y * 2016) + 2015''' inclusive, for any non-negative integer '''y''' such that the height of the target block is larger than '''(y * 2016) + 2015 + 10080'''.

Given a target block, let X,N be a number pair with the following conditions:

* 2016 >= N >= ''threshold''
* ''current_limit'' < X <= ''new_limit''
* There exists a block set, in which at least N% of the blocks signal a ''new_limit'' equal to or larger than X and a ''threshold'' equal to or smaller than N. The percentage calculated should not be rounded.

If no number pair X,N exists, ''current_limit'' is used as ''max_block_size'' for the target block. Otherwise the highest value of X from all X,N pairs is used as the ''max_block_size'' for the target block.

If max_block_size>1,000,000 is used for the target block and max_block_size>1,000,000 is not used for any ancestor of the target block and the size of the block is less then or equal to 1,000,000 then the block must be rejected.

===Signature operations and transaction size===

The maximum signature operations and transaction size are consistent with [[040.mediawiki|BUIP040]] and BIP100:

        max_block_sigops = 20000*((max_block_size-1)/1000000 + 1)

        max_tx_size = 1000000

===Coinbase and user-agent signalling===

Building on the format specified in BUIP005, the relevant variables are signalled
in the coinbase transaction as

        "/EB<current_limit_MB>/FE<new_limit_MB>@<threshold>%/..."

and in the user-agent string as

        "<user-agent>(EB<current_limit_MB>;FE<new_limit_MB>@<threshold>%...)/"

The variables are related as:

        current_limit = current_limit_MB * 1,000,000

        new_limit = new_limit_MB * 1,000,000

==Rationale==

* Only block sets at least 10080 blocks deep are considered to allow for an activation period in which more mining power can join.

* The block set is aligned with the difficulty period to minimize the risk of a chain split. Miners are strongly disincentives to stay on the minority as it will take at least ~8 weeks before difficulty adjustment with a 75% threshold.

* The first time this mechanism is used, the chain is protected from a reorg to the chain with only small blocks.

===Alternatives===

* BUIP055 provides a coordinated ``max_block_size`` upgrade using a target height. A drawback of this approach is that miners cannot predict future support. A fixed hight may result in retracting or postponing target heights due to insufficient support which can damage reputations and cause a loss of momentum.

* BIP135 Version bit signaling can also be used to schedule based on threshold. However version bit proposals cannot individually encompass a minimum threshold or a maximum blocksize. This could be solved by using multiple proposals, but voting on multiple conflicting proposals in parallel can lead to various problems.


