<pre>
BUIP 071: Make Bitcoin Cash the "Release" Version of Bitcoin Unlimited
Proposer: @Peter R (Peter Rizun)
Submitted on: 2017-11-13
Status: Draft
</pre>

==Summary==

On 1 August 2017, the Bitcoin blockchain bifurcated. For the purposes of this proposal, we will refer to the two resulting chains as Bitcoin Cash and Bitcoin Core. While both chains have blocks 0 to 478,558 in common, the blocks from height 478,559 and onward are specific to each chain. The hashes of blocks 478,559 end in ''...191a5eec'' and ''...dc7fa148'' for Cash and Core, respectively.

Since the bifurcation event, Bitcoin Unlimited has maintained node software that tracked the Bitcoin Cash blockchain, as well as node software that tracked the Bitcoin Core blockchain. At the time of bifurcation, the "release version" of Bitcoin Unlimited -- maintained in the repository https://github.com/bitcoinunlimited/bitcoinunlimited -- was defined to track the Bitcoin Core chain; a special "Cash" release was defined to track the Bitcoin Cash chain.

With the failure of the NYA network upgrade scheduled for Block 494,784, it has become increasingly clear that the Bitcoin Core chain will not be able to grow to become a global peer-to-peer electronic cash system. To help facilitate the shift away from Bitcoin Core and towards Bitcoin Cash, this BUIP proposes to name Bitcoin Cash the "official blockchain" of Bitcoin Unlimited, and Bitcoin Core as a "supported blockchain."

== Objectives ==

Specifically, the following changes are proposed:

* Refer to the two chains as Bitcoin Cash and Bitcoin Core in BU literature.
* Rename the git branch presently labeled "BitcoinCash" as "Release."
* Rename the git branch presently labeled "Release" as "BitcoinCore."
* Update the download page on the BU website to change the heading "Official Bitcoin (BTC) Release" to "Deprecated Bitcoin Core (BTC) Release."
* Make other changes on the website and github repo to be consisent with the four points above.

Additionally, this BUIP, if passed, would give BU's Lead Developer the authority to provide a bespoke version of the "Bitcoin Core" branch for miners which creates empty SegWit blocks.

==Conflict of Interest==

The author holds a small position of Bitfinex BTU chain split tokens, the value of which could be affected by this proposal.
