<pre>
BUIP085: Double spend relaying
Proposer: Gal Buki (@torusJKL)
Submitted on: 2018-02-04
Status: passed
</pre>

==Background==
A double spend can happen within the time from the initial broadcast until the transaction is included in a block.
Although this is on average within 10 minutes at the point of sale we need to know that a unconfirmed transaction is as safe as possible withing seconds.

Currently double spend transactions are not relayed thus a merchant might not know that there is a high chance of him not receiving his transaction.
In order to detect double spends those transactions need to be forwarded by the nodes.


==Motivation==
By receiving and forwarding double spend transactions sellers learn about attempts to defraud them faster and can take appropriate steps.
This will make 0-conf transaction on Bitcoin Cash more safe and will give it broader acceptance.


==Task==

# Develop a double spend relaying that is compatible with BitcoinXT's implementation (the relaying as such and the rpc call).
# Add a double spend visualization in the wallet GUI.


==Timeline==

The double spend proof should be developed and to be implemented for BUCash with the aim of being ready for inclusion in the scheduled November 2018 protocol upgrade.

==Caveats==

The lead developer will have discretion and flexibility to modify details specified in this BUIP, while keeping within the spirit of the BUIP with the goal of advancing 0-conf tx security on Bitcoin Cash while staying compatible with the implementation used by BitcoinXT.


==References==

- [[https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/3883/files/9fa53dd3bdc6f62b16a7c2b970449c8c35f4c41b|Relay and alert user to double spends (BitcoinXT merge)]]
