<pre>
BUIP089: Blockchain Engineer Services Contract
Proposer: Andrew Clifford (@solex)
Submitted on: 2018-04-21
Status: passed
</pre>

==Motivation==

As explained in [[https://bitco.in/forum/threads/buip062-funded-development-aka-devpool.2591/|BUIP062 Funded Development, aka Devpool]], since BU was formed as an organization in November 2015 it has relied upon a combination of volunteer blockchain engineers (developers) and some directly funded by BU supporters.

While the Devpool initiative has some success and a number of small mini-projects funded, an important issue has arisen where qualified developers rightly want long-term stability in their income. This is exacerbated in a highly competitive field where many companies struggle with the global shortage in the blockchain engineer marketplace, making piece-meal work even less attractive.

There exists a requirement for a full-time developer to sub-contract directly to BU.

==Objectives==

The objective of this proposal is hire a qualified "in-house" developer who will focus principally on the BUCash client in many different areas. He/she will report to the Bitcoin Unlimited Lead Developer, @theZerg.

==Project Duration==

The funds authorised on this BUIP are for a maximum of two years. However, one months notice for either party is sufficient to terminate the service contract.

In the event of an early termination, a new developer may be contracted to continue the work. If the decision is that no developer is to be contracted, then any unspent funds revert to the consolidated fund, and a subsequent BUIP will need to be approved to continue funded development in a similar manner.

==Project Team==

The developer hired for this role will work closely with theZerg and other BU developers, operating as a contractor responsible for their own accounting and tax reporting.

==Summary of Approved Tasks and Projects and Description of Activities==

#Continuous:
##PR review, release builds.
#Initial Projects:
##Enhanced block storage (database based) will allow pattern based pruning, so pruned nodes can offer some blocks to IBD and a random set of pruned nodes will be very likely to contain the entire blockchain access to any transaction by transaction hash (add/validate txindex table).
##Access to transactions by bitcoin address (add address to transaction table) -- helps light wallets.
##Store block header hashes (will dramatically speed up startup)
##Store transaction inputs by "chainref" (block, tx index, vout index) rather than (transaction id, vout index). This will be a lot smaller.
#SPV/light wallets:
##Investigation of other technologies to help advance this wallet-type.


==Anticipated Challenges and Uncertainties==

Standard development issues only.

==Budget==

The budget for the Blockchain Engineer Services Contract (not employment) is $70,000 per year for 2 years (allocated), paid monthly in arrears.
Payment is offered in either BCH or BTC, but not in any fiat currency, at the end-of-month rate prevailing on bitcoin.com.

The BU President or Secretary will co-sign payment for monthly invoices when presented for payment.
The services contract will be separated in the annual accounts.

==Impact==

The overall pace and quality of BU development is expected to be improved by this initiative resulting in more BU full nodes in the global Bitcoin Cash network, supporting large-blocks specifically and onchain-scaling generally. Software developed under this BUIP will be open-source and available to other BCH dev teams.
