<pre>
BUIP097: New Members for Election #10
Proposer: Andrew Clifford (@solex)
Submitted on: 2018-08-21
Voting date:  2018-08-27
Status: draft
</pre>

==Summary==

This BUIP lists the new membership applications for Bitcoin Unlimited which have been received since the previous membership BUIP voting day. New members are not able to vote on the current BUIPs, but will be able to in subsequent votes, provided that their entry in this BUIP is passed.

#[[https://bitco.in/forum/members/3/|@imaginary_username]]
#*Twitter: @im_uname (see signature on profile)
#*Reddit: /u/imaginary_username, can DM a member if needed to prove identity.
#*BCF discord: @im_uname #4406, can message a member if needed.
#*Yours.org: https://www.yours.org/@im_uname
#*memo: qrg7zy366dtu57xqj4fy9juvtqv2znrdm5huc6uzzw
#*BCH/BTC public key: 1KNvUAmquf9v2BgyrTsLjE8GdKwu1PaJed
#*https://bitco.in/forum/threads/bitcoin-unlimited-membership-join-us.208/page-14#post-63962

#[[https://bitco.in/forum/members/7811/|@Shaun Chong]]
#*https://pool.bitcoin.com/
#*BCH/BTC public key: 1BZTJSoLVgwwKrKpV6DGyDQeUUGw5wthuu
#*https://bitco.in/forum/threads/bitcoin-unlimited-membership-join-us.208/page-13#post-61594

Prospective members are asked to provide a public key which they will use for voting. Bitcoin Unlimited is a participatory organization where we do ask that people devote a small amount of time, every couple of months to guide the direction of the software and org itself.

More links to external posting history (e.g. Twitter, Medium, Facebook, Reddit) are welcome, and I'll add them here. In the current adversarial climate the links prove helpful to existing members to make their evaluation.

<pre>
------BEGIN BITCOIN SIGNED MESSAGE-----
BUIP097 imaginary_username Shaun Chong
-----BEGIN BITCOIN SIGNATURE-----
15TiujYmnHa33fjEnasBBm1eWcGx9YEXPL
IGg3bPr52bpdUutGLhCW4K2MGynBi/QgLpxDZ9pbDm98cIhAV+TcdRoIrI8eycz06sIJ7IXmS7QeBpmLUbECIrA=
-----END BITCOIN SIGNED MESSAGE-----
</pre>
