<pre>
BUIP103: Let's Build BCH! Hackathon @ Satoshi's Coffee-house
Proposer: Will C. (Bitcoin Cash Association Mod)
Submitted on: 2018-09-21
Sponsor: Anrew Clifford (@solex)
Status: passed
</pre>

==Summary==

This BUIP is requesting approval for operational funds from the Bitcoin Unlimited (BU) membership to allocate $60,000 of BU funds to sponsor a new conference brand: "Satoshi's Coffee-house"

The Bitcoin Cash ecosphere has added developers and projects at an aggressive pace. The motivation of "Satoshi's Coffee-house" is to facilitate maintaining that growth and assist in its acceleration, in order to, bring more financial freedom to the world.

The planning and consultation of the conference will continue with the "Bitcoin Cash Association" and the ABC team to provide the best possible experience. While proceeding with the ongoing negotiations with Bitcoin.com, Cointext, and Bitmain. We will seek additional sponsors and professional organizers to assist with planning and running the conference.

==Location and Date*==

Proposed location: Las Vegas NV, USA

Proposed date: 16-17 February 2019

(*)subject to change if deemed necessary by conference organizers.

==Objectives==

The purpose of the conference is to provide a platform for developers to interact, discuss, network, and present their ongoing or upcoming projects with the Bitcoin Cash community within the North American region. The Hackathon also intends to bring new developers into the ecosystem and challenge existing ones. Hackathons foster creativity, problem-solving and new ideas, which, may bring new tools into the ecosystem and increase Bitcoin Cash adoption.

Goals for the conference include:

# To bring members of the multiple open-source implementations to the North American region to present their code, projects, or relevant topic with the community.
# To provide a platform for developers of current projects, released or in-development, to present their upcoming features, plans, use cases, code, and engage with the community.
# To support new developers by leveraging a hackathon with the Bitcoin.com and Bitmain team running for 1 month remotely. This format could be a differentiator from other hackathons that go for a weekend because there is only so much quality that a team can produce in a couple of days. A segment of the conference will be dedicated to the hackathon participants.
# Attendance will be targeted to be around 450 attendees. The duration of the conference will be 2 days and planned to be at the Venetian in Las Vegas.
# The intent is to provide high-quality video recordings and live-streaming of the Event.
# There will be an open "call for proposals" for presentations. The conference will do its best to make the program be inclusive and representative of various groups in the Bitcoin Cash community.
# Funding to pay expenses for keynote speakers/attendees. Partial expenses may be offered on a case-by-case basis.

The "Satoshi Vision Conference" in Tokyo generated enthusiasm in the Bitcoin Cash community. The goal of "Let's Build BCH!" is to keep that momentum in motion by supporting BCH developers. A hackathon will highlight the community's fortitude and dedication to the long-term growth of the ecosystem despite a bear market. The support and interaction with developers will signal that adoption is of the utmost importance to Bitcoin Cash's users.
