<pre>
BUIP110: Funded Development, aka Devpool2
Proposer: solex 
Submitted on: 2018-12-31
Status: passed
</pre>

==Motivation==

Since BU was formed as an organization in November 2015 it has relied upon a combination of volunteer developers and some directly funded by BU supporters. A lot has been achieved, however, the practice of funding development authorised on a per project basis through directed BUIPs removes a lot of flexibility for general maintenance, housekeeping, refactoring, QA, none of which is functionally significant warranting a BUIP. Further, some BUIPs are passed authorising changes but do not have directed funding included. Hence, Devpool #1 (BUIP062) was raised and approved just over a year ago and many worthwhile scaling and optimisation improvements resulted and are now seen in later versions of the BU client.

==Objectives==

The objective of this proposal is to enable further funding of project development, short-name "Devpool2", at the discretion of the Bitcoin Unlimited lead Developer.

==Project Duration==

The funds authorised on this BUIP are for a maximum of one year. Any unspent funds revert to the consolidated fund, and a subsequent BUIP will need to be approved to continue funded development for a further year.

==Project Team==

Developers who wish to offer their services for project work are invited to PM the BU Developer directly on this forum or make contact via GitHub. Developers being paid are contractors who are responsible for their own accounting and tax reporting. Payment will be offered in either BTC or BCH, but not in fiat currency.

==Summary of Approved Projects==

1. Passed BUIPs automatically qualify.
2. General maintenance, housekeeping, refactoring, QA and other discretionary work also qualify.

==Description of Activities==

The BU Developer has oversight of the projects, and work parcels, he allocates or executes work within project descriptions which he drafts and posts to this forum for general information.

==Anticipated Challenges and Uncertainties==

Standard development issues only.

==Budget==

The budget for the development pool #2 is $60,000.
This is equivalent to a projected average of $80 per hour for 750 hours. It is expected that one or more funded projects will be active, depending upon circumstances.

The BU President and Secretary will co-authorise drawdown of these funds at the recommendation of the BU Developer when contracted developer invoices are presented for work completed.
All projects to be individually named and separated in the annual accounts.

==Impact==

Bitcoin Unlimited's software has long been recognized as pushing the boundaries of on-chain scaling. The overall quality of BU development is expected to be improved by this initiative, also resulting in an accelerated rate of improvement, especially as the next bull market is likely to see an influx of users who are frustrated by the lack of BTC scalability.
