<pre>
BUIP118: Implement CashAccount lookup features
Proposer: Jonathan Silverblood
Submitted on: 2019-03-30
Status: passed
</pre>

==Summary==
The purpose of this BUIP is to build native support for CashAccounts in Bitcoin Unlimited's node software. The support includes a registry of established accounts and their payment data and a public API for querying this data from wallets.

==Proposal==
* This BUIP proposes that we use bitcoin unlimited funds to:
* Add code that manages a registry of CashAccounts
* Add code that allows wallets to query for CashAccount registrations.
* Add configuration settings to enable/disable public API for wallets.
* Add configuration settings to enable/disable CashAccount management.

==Motivation==
While there already exist several different CashAccount lookup server implementations already, having a strong redundancy in terms of lookup nodes helps build resilience against various denial of service attacks. Having a CashAccount lookup server built into Bitcoin Unlimited pretty much guarantees that there will always be enough lookup servers in the wild. It also makes it easier to add support for sending to CashAccounts in the wallet as well.

==Background==
Cash Accounts is a protocol for on-chain name-to-payment data, and allows sending money over the Bitcoin Cash network to be less technical and more humane.

==Links==
* Website: https://www.cashaccount.info/
* Specification: https://gitlab.com/cash-accounts/specification/blob/master/SPECIFICATION.md
* Test data: https://gitlab.com/cash-accounts/specification/blob/master/TEST.md
* Official lookup server source: https://gitlab.com/cash-accounts/lookup-server/tree/master

