<pre>
BUIP124: New Members for Election #13
Proposer: solex
Submitted on: 2019-05-03
Status: voted
</pre>

==Summary==
This BUIP lists the new applications for Bitcoin Unlimited membership received since the previous membership BUIP vote, and by 3 May 2019. New members are not able to vote on the current BUIPs, but will be able to in subsequent votes, provided that their entry in this BUIP is passed.

1. @maplesyrupsucker 
Links
Twitter: https://twitter.com/maplesyrupsuckr
Memo: @maplesyrupsucker
BCH/BTC public key: 1DHqGgv6X9zPNpW2h3T8oWQi6b2gEdzNEz
https://bitco.in/forum/threads/bitcoin-unlimited-membership-join-us.208/page-16#post-87610

2. @LocalBitcolnCash
Links
Reddit: https://reddit.com/u/MobTwo
BCH/BTC public key: 1Q9REfADp6oKKDDMsaNvpbRqgv7TMo3dSQ
https://bitco.in/forum/threads/bitcoin-unlimited-membership-join-us.208/page-17#post-90115

3. @sken 
Links
sken is a declined BU member applying again to join. He was first declined in BUIP090
Reddit: https://reddit.com/u/skenlrc
github: floreslorca
Twitter: https://twitter.com/sskknn00
telegram: ssklk
BCH/BTC public key: 12Hdfw24EgY9Akj9UUbKBGPJYVm9J4V2pU
https://bitco.in/forum/threads/bitcoin-unlimited-membership-join-us.208/page-17#post-90248

4. @Richy_T 
Links
Richy_T is an expired BU member applying to rejoin. He was first inducted in BUIP036
BCH/BTC public key: 18aGLNEVjtmskE3Sj4KeW9EmqKyetdxn8o
https://bitco.in/forum/threads/bitcoin-unlimited-membership-join-us.208/page-18#post-91486

Prospective members are asked to provide a public key which they will use for voting. Bitcoin Unlimited is a participatory organization where we do ask that people devote a small amount of time, every couple of months to guide the direction of the software and org itself.

Only legacy addresses are used in the voting system at present.

More links to external posting history (e.g. Twitter, Medium, Facebook, Reddit) are welcome, and I'll add them here. In the current adversarial climate the links prove helpful to existing members to make their evaluation.


------BEGIN BITCOIN SIGNED MESSAGE-----
BUIP124 maplesyrupsucker LocalBitcolnCash sken Richy_T
-----BEGIN BITCOIN SIGNATURE-----
15TiujYmnHa33fjEnasBBm1eWcGx9YEXPL
HwQnndQZYctKo5xsdiXLDb07ZkIZb0Uqfehv0/S+j5XwPlnPIdf2LEpqAIfVRDnI40XSYDcagSTqva6oN8EmhS0=
-----END BITCOIN SIGNED MESSAGE-----
